okay so we're going to review the game
that we just played in hope that we
learn something from it now obviously
some of the stuff that i'm going to say
you already know but i'm hoping that
this tutorial will be helpful to
somebody who is you know just entering
into the world of chess so now i start
out with a classic opening where I move
my king pawn now by doing that I allow
for my bishop to get out my way my
King's Bishop to get out and my King's
Bishop controls all these squares and my
queen now controls all of these squares
and I have two squares in the center
that's awesome and now it's a it's
already helping me to be able to castle
and I have a strong ability to castle
that's why the king pawn to you know to
e4 is considered you know by many as
like the best for a smooth that you can
do so now you move on and by contrast
you don't really take control of the
center if you think of this as a
battlefield so we have a battlefield
with three different types of soldiers
you have your pawns you have your minor
pieces which are your choose your night
and your Bishop and you have your major
pieces which you're looking your queen
so now we have a battlefield we want to
take control of the battlefield
especially the center of the battlefield
as quickly as possible and we want to
get as many of our soldiers out as Papa
as as quickly as possible and the
easiest ones to get out or usually are
the the minor pieces which is the you
know the bishop in the night so by doing
this this move of g6 or g72 g6 you don't
really control the center and you don't
really give any of your pieces an avenue
to attack so now you're your Bishop is
attacking this space which you already
controlled last before you moved and
this space would you already controlled
before you move
didn't really gain any ground so you
just basically you know made a move in
it didn't accomplish much so now I bring
this I bring this out to control all
four of these pieces in the center and
to give this bishop now a whole avenue
for itself to attack so now you move
this you move your king your night out
which is a good move because when you
attack me and by and not only did you
bring a new piece out into the new
soldier out into the field but you're
attacking my pawn which forces me to
respond to that and hinders you know
whatever plan I may have had so now I
respond I could have respond by moving
my King's Bishop pawn forward but if I
had done that I would be just wasting a
turn because I wouldn't be developing a
piece no new soldiers would be brought
out into the battlefield and I'd be
weakening my my potential kingside
castle which I'm really looking forward
to doing because that's the best way to
protect your king now you've already
kind of messed it up with that an
initial move so now this piece wasn't
under attack so you just kind of wasted
a move moving it up there where you
should have brought out either you're
either your other night or moved upon
forward so that your bishop could get
out or something so that you'd be able
to get more control of more pieces but
instead you just moved this a second
time which I you know was a mistake
because you didn't see my queen there to
take it but even if my queen wasn't
there you wouldn't have you wouldn't
have accomplished much by moving it up
there especially because you're so close
to the pawns and I could just move the
pawn down and then you would have had to
run away in the beginning remember try
not to move your pieces more than once
until you have enough of your minor
pieces out onto the board so I just take
it's obviously you know just a mistake
so now you attack which again doesn't
really develop any of your any of your
pieces and i decided i'm going to i
don't want to run away because i'm
already out there so I scoot over once
one and you attack again now at this
point I don't want you know I've already
moved it three times so that's a big
waste for me wasting time but you didn't
really accomplish much that's not so bad
so now that move didn't really do
anything your bishop was protected by
your rook so you didn't really need to
move this pawn up all you did was hinder
the bishops ability to attack so I moved
another piece at now if you look at the
board I have three I have two minor
pieces and one major piece and complete
control of the center where you have one
minor peace out that's completely
useless because it's blocked by this
pawn